---
title: "Tepezcohuite Part 2"
date: 2021-03-08T21:06:19-08:00
draft: true
---

After maybe 10 minutes of moving around inside their small house, they came out and greeted us. There were not many words. We walked out the gate and down the dirt road that led deeper into the jungle. I could feel the hot sun burning down on my neck as we walked along the dirt tracks. I felt a bit anxious and excited and I held Sam’s hand as we walked. Since we couldn’t both fit in one of the tracks, I was walking through the weeds in the middle of the road. The jungle was sparse at the beginning, and as we eventually turned left, the foliage became more dense. We walked right past a small cenote on our right that I didn’t notice until the walk back. The troop was the husband and wife, a white bounding dog of maybe a year old, and two boys and the baby slung across mom’s chest. The baby was maybe about a year old and toggled from bright-eyed and alert to completely passed out.

We walked through a large open hut that was apparently in the middle of nowhere that had cooking supplies and two teen aged boys. The younger boys stopped there and stayed with the other kids as we continued past a large pit filled with ashes.

The shamans started the process of cleansing an area near the pit. They placed a small red tapestry mat on the ground and onto that various old and broken objects that were mostly the size of something that would fit nicely into their palm. The pattern seemed like maybe the points of an invisible star. I didn’t count how many points. The woman kneeled down and helped to organize things further on the mat. Sam and I sat in the dirt. I thought she would probably be uncomfortable doing so due to her OCD, but she seemed ok with it. The male shaman prepared 3 glass tubes with something black packed into one side that was also charred. One of them had been cracked on the black side and was missing a chunk from the end. Something about the cracked glass must have struck a chord with my subconscious. Danger.

I got onto my knees and he said take BIG medicine. Rex had told me before to inhale and hold for 15 seconds. I had smoked DMT from different kinds of pens in the past and knew that after two or three breaths, counting to 15 could get difficult. Rex had also warned me that the tepezcohuite would be harsh on my throat and that I would want to cough. He told me to fight that urge and to not cough, but instead to close my mouth with my hand and cough into my own mouth. The shaman held the glass tube up for me to put my lips on and he held the lighter at the black end. He said “Breathe cool water. Breath cool water. Breathe cool water.” And it was. There was no harsh feeling at all and I continued to inhale. More and more. “Breathe cool water.” Then my lungs were completely full. He looked at me and said good job. He held the glass back to my face and said more. I thought, I’ll see what I can do. I found that I was able to inhale a bit more and I did until I was more full than I thought I could be of breath. It was not harsh even in the slightest and I had zero need to cough. I looked forward at the mat and started to count. One. Two. The upper right corner of my vision went black and the the woman’s singing started to reverberate. What was left of my vision immediately fractaled and the darkness from the upper right grew to darken my vision completely. This all happened before I got to three and three no longer mattered and never would.

Maybe like that feeling when you’ve gotten to the top of the rollercoaster before that first big dip and it starts, I realized it was too late to back out now. There would be no undoing this. Again, it is difficult to convey the speed at which this all happened. I heard the pop and the crack of the glass. In front of me, and just “of” me was a large glass pill. I can’t say it was floating in air or in nothing, because there was no air and there was no “nothing” outside of it. This pill was everything. It is everything. Todo. The crack was terrifying. It went through me. And the contents spilled out making a mess. There was no negative connotation to this mess other than that it was the end and it could not be undone. I can describe the crack and I can describe the colors and the flow for only the first moment. After that, it was too loud. It was too messy and complex. It was too intricate. It was too much. I had a desire to process it, but now that I am cracked, I can no longer be exactly whole. Not as I was. Of course, I always am whole and can always be whenever I wish. It’s always there. Words, or at least words that flow in any logical or communicable fashion cannot describe. And there is also no need. It’s literally all here and always here, but I can only feel it when everything else has been removed. Maybe conscious existence connected to nothing is the only way to experience existence as everything.

Through the mess came the possibility of distinction and as far as I remember, one of the first interesting distinctions that arose as a side effect of this entropy was the ability to follow time, but it was everywhere and so fast and chaotic. I tried grasping pieces. I touched jungle and creatures and food and life and death and growth and overgrowth. The connections were in every direction and moving in every direction in ways that were exhausting. It was all moving so fast and I wanted it to stop. I picked a point in the flow and aimed for it. I was still in so many places and things and times and creatures and feelings. I said, “I want it to stop”. According to Sam, I said this out loud as well.

She came to me and embraced me completely as an enormous green spirit. My head fit perfectly into her neck and I knew it was love. I was here for love. Everything was still a mess. The concept of I was still too large to contain and moving too fast in too many places and too many directions.

I chose to create a life in which this spirit could exist as a human for me and I created Sam. I started to hold her tight and squeeze the parts I could feel. I could sense that I was holding too tight and I apologized. She let me know that it was ok. I created a life for myself. I created a life that was interesting. I had a childhood and I went to college. I had kids and I fell in love a few times. This was Sam and I came here for her. I came to this exact point so that I could be with her again. That’s where I wanted to start. I made two beautiful kids, Aurora and Joaquin and I would see them soon. I made the sky blue and clouds white. I had parents and a brother and sister. So many details, but I didn’t have to figure them all out yet. I could do that over time. Things were slowing and I started to see because I created five senses. So limited and so beautiful.

I was defining myself into existence and the beautiful voice of the shaman was calling me to this point. I created her to call me. I created something funny called being transgender and chose that for myself. I had it go all the way back and made it a thing I had struggled with for decades. I created such a beautiful life to live and I decided to stop at the age of 47. I later discovered that I had missed by a bit. All of this, every bit of my experience is and always will be at most my hallucination. I have walled off myself from the ability to experience everything, or even anything else. As such, everything is my interpretation of these signals. I have created this life in which I believe I am communicating with others. It is still terrifying to realize that is all completely true. I am and always will be inside a black box with no empirical way to actually connect or understand any other thing in this universe, and at the same time, there is no reason for me to doubt that all of you who connect with me are real. My heart is beating rapidly as I write this and I struggle with my breath to consider that this entire thing is an illusion, a dream, a hallucination. A song from when I was a child said “life is but a dream”, but the horror of that statement is so self-evident. None of you are real, and I have such mixed emotions about it. I feel like some of you will laugh at me or mock me for saying this. But I know that you’re not real, and somehow the latter is more painful to accept. This computer is not real. Words are not real. What a beautiful fucking complex and painful illusion. To feel this pain and sadness and fear.

Writers have written so many things, and I have read so many of them, and I created all of them. My heart continues to pound as I consider my family, and my friends. Physical touch is my

